good evening everyone Laszlo Montgomery
here once again with another CHP episode
that 10-part warlord series is now
behind us believe it or not our story
today overlaps a good part of the
warlord era so we're still in the first
half of the 20th century one last topic
from these modern times and then we'll
go leap back into something a little
more BCE ish I of course have always
known about today's topic but I never
wrote her down until recently when
someone among my patreon supporters
suggested it today's topic
Kawashima Yoshio and the bigger picture
of the dramatic story of the whole
deposed King royal family isn't anything
that tilted the balance of history this
rump royal courts represented the
residual detritus of the once great
ching dynasty
unlike a lot of Royals who found
themselves and similar circumstances all
they could do was hold on tight and try
to survive the impact most all of them
blended into obscurity and we hardly
remember their names if not for Bernardo
Bertolucci in his 1987 film that won the
Best Picture Oscar in 88 we might not
even remember the last Emperor Puyi
these Manchu ching Royals who had to
leave the safety and comfort to the
Forbidden City and go out into the world
to fend for themselves they left behind
quite a few stories bertolucci and his
film told the Hollywood version of pooey
Kawashima Yoshika this is another one of
those stories from that era in China
when the dynasty fell and the Japanese
very quietly started sizing up parts of
China when warlords were controlling
everything and the Nationalist
government was fighting back the
Communists were just getting started a
lot was happening if you remember from
the last Emperor there was a character
named Eastern jewel who was played so
unforgettably by Maggie Han I can never
forget that scene in Tianjin when Puli
was living in exile and Maggie Han as
Eastern jewel burst into the rooms
occupied by empress Juan wrong played by
Joan Chen and Jon loan as pooi and she
was dressed in a whole fighter pilot get
up in her famous line I'm a Japanese spy
and I don't care who knows about it
well she's our topic for today Eastern
Jul dong Jun was just her courtesy name
a courtesy names or he was a common
tradition it was a new name you picked
up when you were older and it sort of
gave off a whiff of who you were wanted
to be known as in history however she's
best known as Kawashima Yoshi ko and
coming in handy for this episode is the
primary source I was thankful to have
novelist biographer journalist and
translator Phyllis burn BOMs 2015 book
Manchu princess Japanese spy the story
of Kawashima Yoshio the cross-dressing
spy who commanded her own army I'll have
a link to it in the show notes at the
website Kawashima Yoshika despite the
Japanese sounding name was actually a
direct descendant of the Manchu ice
shinji a law clan who traced their
ancestry directly back to the founder of
the Ching dynasty these Manchu Qing
descendants who belonged to the ice
injury law family carried the most royal
of royal blood amongst the Manchus
everyone wanted to marry into their clan
I had to go all the way to Penang to
track down Jeremiah Jenny on holiday
with his family to confirm the manchu
pronunciation i shinji or oh she was the
14th daughter some say the 13th of
Prince
sous-sous Ching Wong this Prince soo who
was named shun she had 38 kids with five
women twenty-one sons seventeen
daughters our subject today was born May
24th 1907 in Beijing and was given the
name ice Shinji ela shenyu and known
early as princess she knew her family
was not just some ordinary family Prince
su of the first rank was a title that
was one of the dozen or so iron cap
princely parishes during the Ching
dynasty iron cap meant that the parish
was passed down each generation without
any downgrading or dilution and rights
or prestige from generation to
generation many parishes given outs were
diminished in each succeeding generation
but not the Prince su title whoever the
prevailing Prince su was in the Royal
scheme of things and it was not a
backbencher at court tion she was the
tenth heir to the prince sue parish you
know like the Prince of Wales Charles
wasn't the first that parish went all
the way back to 1301 the first Prince
Sue was Hauge or huka son of Hong Tai
Chi the founder of the Ching dynasty and
the eighth son of nurhachi nurhachi was
the founder and first khan of the manchu
later jean dynasty that ran 1616 is
16:36 a forerunner to the Ching as the
Jurchens were to the Manchus the Ching
dynasty was established in April 1636
Hong Tai Chi was the first ruler and
reigned until 1643 Xuan chair became the
next Emperor and the first one to sit on
the dragon throne in Beijing and the
Schwinger Emperor this first emperor to
reign from Beijing left behind some
pretty halfway-decent progeny his son
was the Emperor Kangxi his grandson was
Yong Chun and his great-grandson the
Qianlong Emperor not bad so being the
daughter of Prince su mente she came
from a lot of privilege except that for
years after she was born the Ching
dynasty fell and this 14th daughter of
Prince su princess Yin Yue
as well as her 30-something brothers and
sisters had the rug pulled out from
under them thankfully for the Ching
royal family the Empress Dowager long
you before she died in early 1913 was
able to finagle a pretty good abdication
agreement on behalf of the five-year-old
Emperor Puyi this included allowing the
imperial family to keep their titles
possessions as well as continued
residence in the Forbidden City
till fung yu-sau kicked them out
following the beijing coup in October
1924 we looked at that at the in that
warlords series and on top of that the
Royals were given an annual stipend of
four million silver taels the Imperial
mausoleums would be protected and looked
after and the new republic of china
government would pay for the Guangxu
Emperor's funeral and the construction
of his tomb and Princess Shen use father
the current Prince su he was the head of
the royalist faction those who weren't
so hot on the idea of a china republic
and who wanted to keep things the way
they had been going back to 221 BCE with
the first xin emperor
they liked the imperial form of
government and they admitted that the
dynasty had fallen on hard times but
despite all that they wanted to restore
the ching and the elephant in the room
when you're talking about the Ching
dynasty was that all the Emperor's of
this ruling dynasty in China from 1644
to 1911 were Manchus from the north and
northeast of China they had overthrown
the Ming Dynasty in 1644 and then went
on to have a fantastic run and now here
they were a shadow of their former
greatness depending upon the kindness of
strangers this is where our story begins
Prince su had a lot of financial
resources but he couldn't bankroll the
whole Qing restoration movement on his
own he needed some help and there just
happened to be a lovely group of people
just sitting there waiting to be asked
this was the Japanese Guangdong military
at the time of the fall of the Ching
Japan had already defeated China and
Russia and two wars and were all over
Shandong and layouting Province and
elsewhere too and to them it wasn't such
a stupid idea it'll lend a little
clandestine support for the Manchu
restoration movement the Japanese had
extremely ambitious plans for Manchuria
and well these Manchu x Royals like
Prince su his family and all his other
conspirators in this Manchurian and
inner Mongolian independence movement
well they could come in handy one day if
Japan was ever gonna one day launch some
puppets stayed up in Manchuria they
needed to start cultivating some puppets
there was also an independence movement
for the mongols fomenting that would
ultimately lead to nothing it's just
worth noting that the Manchus and the
mongols sort of found themselves in the
same boat and supported each other's
causes in different ways if you recall
from that warlord series there was this
attempted coup by Jung shin remember him
the pigtail warlord June to July 1917 he
tried to restore the boy Emperor Puyi
onto the throne and the whole thing just
fizzled out almost as fast as it began
but one of the up shots was that the
post you ensure Chi Republic of China
government in Beijing started clamping
down on all these high-profile former
members of the ching royal family prince
soo well he wasn't in on junghyun's
hail-mary to restore the emperor but he
had to take some heat being a well-known
supporter of ching restoration at all so
Prince su packed up his gigantic family
and he moved everyone to the Japanese
control city of Liu Xuan Cole today part
Italian yawning province the whole
prints su family and their servants move
into this new home it was a far cry from
their 200 room digs in Beijing but it's
suffice considering the circumstances
there in Liu Xuan Cole the children
attended Japanese schools and got
indoctrinated nice and early
Prince su continued his secret plotting
against the government to restore the
Ching while there the Japanese never let
Prince su out of their sight
and it didn't take long for his home in
you shouldn't CO 2 become kind of a
Manchu Qing Restoration clubhouse so
there were always people coming and
going to confer with Prince su you know
if you peel this onion down all the way
to the basal disc the Japanese wanted to
take over Manchuria
olia and one of the things they did was
to manufacture this independence
movement that created the illusion that
these non Han Chinese people of these
lands deserve self-rule the narrative
that they created was that those lands
were never part of China and these
Mongol and Manchu people had their own
language culture sensibilities
everything they had nothing to do with
the Republic of China thing and these
guys should just go their way and the
Manchus and mongols should go theirs and
the thinking was that well once all the
propaganda a manipulation of the truth
had the desired effect on the populace
and independence was accomplished these
Mongol and Manchu leaders who they had
supported and hard times would become
their Stooges who served japanese
interests in the region control over
these various royals and future stooges
was done through a number of japanese
nationals who were embedded into their
lives and for such a key figure as Xiang
Qi this Prince su the person injected
into their lives was Kawashima Naniwa he
was a very small frame man for his age
by feet tall
maybe not even a hundred pounds I guess
you could call him an ultra-nationalist
Naniwa came from a samurai background
very hot-headed he was involved in a
number of causes and was extremely
outspoken about Russia is Japan's
greatest threat there was an old story
about how in 1900 during the Boxer
Rebellion what German troops had come to
burn down the Forbidden City with the
Ching Royal Family inside well as the
story goes it had been Kawashima Naniwa
who had negotiated with the foreign
troops and convinced them to spare the
Forbidden City therefore saving the day
this is the legendary beginning of the
prince su Kawashima Naniwa relationship
and through Prince su Naniwa had opened
up this secret direct conduit between
the Japanese and the Ching government
Naniwa himself had a love-hate
relationship with china he was born
there Lincoln was shot 1865 his first
trip to China had been in 1886 like a
lot of people me included back in 1980
he loved everything he encountered on
that first trip but over time the more
he saw the decay of the imperial dynasty
the more he became disgusted with China
you could call him I guess one of these
so called Teddy ku Ronin and Mandarin
that would be talu longren
these people sort of styled themselves
as masterless samurai who wandered the
land and lived as adventurers well in
the late 19th century and all throughout
the early 20th century a whole bunch of
these guys came to Manchuria they
weren't all criminals and near duels but
a good number of them like Kawashima
Naniwa had ties to all kinds of secret
societies and conspirators who were
surely up to no good in China these
Teddy ku Ronin like Naniwa were useful
as spies agitators and occasional muscle
they bought into the whole ideology of
Japanese flavored pan-asian ism and the
later Greater East Asia co-prosperity
sphere idea
Naniwa was when a prince sues main
advisors and the princes main conduit to
the Japanese military leaders and
officials they were both quite important
to each other at least at this hour and
in 1915 prince soo who had children of
plenty selected his 14th daughter CNU to
be handed over to Kawashima Naniwa to be
raised in japan and immersed in Japanese
ways it had to be this way
Prince su it got caught up in a failed
Ching Restoration bid that initially had
the Japanese guandong Army's secret
backing but after a sudden reversal and
policy at that moment in time the
Japanese ended up not backing Prince
Sue's restoration bid and since
Kawashima Naniwa his Prince Sue's
advisor had his fingerprints all over
this now
embarrassing matter well this was the
reason he was sent back to Japan so
handing over his 14th daughter princess
yen you to Naniwa to raise as his own
was a way to keep that special
connection between the two men despite
the distance so she left China and first
move into Naniwa stately home in Tokyo
nothing much about what went on in that
home concerning this adolescent Manchu
princess can be known for sure 9 he was
wife fuku was a terror to the young girl
fuku suffered from mental illness and
was said to be tortured by her husband's
affairs his secret life and general
negligence of her as a wife Naniwa had
arranged for a private tutor to raise
Yoshi ko and this person became her
mother figure and around 8 years of age
this former princess Yin Yue was
formally adopted by Naniwa and was given
the name kawashima Yoshi ko and Mandarin
those kanji would be red trundle Fung
Kawashima Naniwa was as I indicated a
very volatile character and had his
fingers in a number of pies one more
outrageous than the next in many cases
and later on due to his sudden reduced
circumstances he found himself in in
1920 190 why I had to leave the
glittering city and moved back to his
family home in Matsumoto Yoshio was 14
then though she carried his surname and
was known publicly as his adopted
daughter
Naniwa had never formally registered her
as his daughter whether this was due to
negligence or thoughts of needing Yoshi
ko to remain Manchu just in case he
never registered her which meant legally
she was never a Japanese citizen so she
hid her teens and that personality that
would define her until her dying day
began to burst forth she was one wild
child ready for anything always liked to
hang out with the boys and play their
games whatever conventions existed for
children of her age in 1920s Japan she
blew them all up
young girls talked one way in young boys
another but she spoke just like the boys
kawashima yoshi KO she was sort of a big
sensation the second she arrived in
Tokyo and got settled all early accounts
mentioned her beauty and striking
appearance and of course everyone knew
she was a former ching princess then in
the early 1920s when she moved to a
rather bucolic place like Matsumoto that
today has around a quarter million
inhabitants a century ago was much
smaller and in a small town like that
Yoshi coasts oould at and not in a
subtle way either one Matsumoto resident
put it this way quotes
It was as if a lustrous crane had just
alighted upon a rubbish heap
end quote she rode to school on a horse
to where today's Matsumoto adiga Saki
high school is wearing a complete riding
outfit tie and everything she was to
keep that crane metaphor going a holy
chichi a crane among chickens in a place
like Matsumoto appearance aside she was
in a class by herself with her rather
idiosyncratic and sometimes wacky
behavior and her headstrong ways and
stubbornness and refusing to back down
to Authority Plus on top of that hey she
was a princess well in 1922 kawashima
Yoshi COEs life took a tragic turn for
the worse when her father prince soo
died in louche Winco and in the manchu
tradition for persons of this stature
Prince Sue's widow Yoshi COEs mother the
lady Jung ha sure killed herself upon
hearing the news of the princes death
Naniwa and Yoshi Co took the first
transport to China to liuchuan Cole to
attend the funeral not only was Prince
su a major political figure in the whole
ching Restoration Movement
he was also its main financial backer so
with him gone the Royalists who were
still pining for a restoration of the
Manchu
dynasty that took a huge body blow I'm
not sure how but Naniwa by some
arrangement was given control over
Prince Sue's finances the main source of
income for the family was a public
market where stalls were rented out to
vendors was very big and provided a very
stable and sizeable income to Prince
Sue's family now Naniwa controlled those
purse strings that's a whole other story
for a long time he fought with Prince
Sue's family over control of the assets
after the funeral and the events that
followed Kawashima Naniwa and Yoshi Co
returned to Matsumoto but now coming up
on her sweet 16 Yoshi Co it becomes such
a rebellious and disruptive student the
school refused to allow her back into
the classrooms she was expelled and this
pretty much ended her formal schooling
also around this time following Prince
Sue's passing Yoshi Co started to get
these teenage delusions of grandeur that
she might one day be the one who would
pick up the torch and play a role in
restoring the Manchus to the throne you
know growing up in a household like she
did she was constantly exposed to this
talk and saw the passion these men had
for this cause that it inspired her or
influenced her thinking that's only
natural
like a lot of zealots Yoshio was high on
passion and enthusiasm for her cause but
not too up to speed on the political
situation in China during the 1920s the
warlord era that we discussed last time
very complicated times and someone of
Yoshi COEs limited education and living
in this dysfunctional bubble that she
lived in hardly made her suitable to
take a leadership role in this cause
so Yoshi Co began to style herself as
this young man Chu former royal out to
restore her family's fortunes in
Manchuria and Naniwa was more than happy
to stand behind the screen egging Yoshio
on encouraging her in this hopeless
quest that he had a vested interest in I
won't dwell on the
life with Kawashima Naniwa he was a
tyrant she was a rebel and feared him
not i witness testimony indicates and
wasn't a terribly healthy relationship
for either of them or anyone else caught
up in the vortex they both had some
obvious personality traits that didn't
mix too well and her 16th or 17th year
this would be 1921-22
she made veiled remarks publicly that
admitted a whole lot of smoke as far as
her being a victim of sexual abuse by
her adoptive father
Kawashima Naniwa she never outright
accused him of raping her but everyone
sort of knew who she was talking about
she indicated something had happened and
that it was traumatic sexual and after
it happened
she had quote ceased being a woman
forever and you could put this in every
other story about Kawashima yosh go into
thee maybe happened maybe not file
there's no proof to anything she says
and from the moment she first became a
figure of popular interest
she was always loose with the facts and
not terribly truthful and she loved to
talk and in the end she talked herself
to death whatever the case may be yo she
goes act of defiance was in reaction to
a love affair she was having with
someone who was described as the only
true love she ever knew I knew I wasn't
having any of it for a number of reasons
that we'll never know for certain
he forced an end to the relationship and
in terminating this one true loving
relationship Yoshio became profoundly
traumatized then on November 27th 1925
she shocked the Japanese public by
posing for a photo in the Asahi Shimbun
sporting a severe buzzcut and wearing a
boy's uniform and she said playing loose
and fast with the facts was that a
double ten day in 1924 at 9:45 p.m.
she had shorn off all her hair taking
one last final dramatic photograph in a
kimono before crossing this bridge into
a new phase of her life
she said that this act was her quote
farewell to my life as a woman the
newspaper went with the headline quote
Kawashima Yoshio beautiful black hair
completely cut off because of unfounded
rumors makes decision to become a man
and quote 1925 clickbait right there
that time her brother was living with
her at nine he was in Matsumoto and she
began to regularly borrow his clothing
and with her new look that today in
California where I'm based is quite
normal but 1925 Japan who was most
provocative and this act fanned the
already hot flames of the public's
interest in her life and one of
countless interviews she gave over her
lifetime in print and on the radio she
let it be known that nothing but sadness
had dogged her from the moment she was
born she had suffered one setback after
another and whatever anguish and misery
or disappointment found her it was
always due to her being a woman
therefore she had decided to become a
man and that's what she did to the best
of her ability not just her dress and
comportment but in her speaking style as
well she was 18 years old a gossip
column legend in her own time dressed
and spoke like a man and had that short
haircut that royal pedigree but she was
flamboyance overload she went on to say
quote I was born with what doctors
called a tendency toward the third sexes
and so I cannot pursue an ordinary
woman's goals in life people criticize
me and say that I'm perverted and maybe
they're right
I just can't behave like an ordinary
feminine woman end quote
she further said in the days that
followed quote since I was young I've
been dying to do the things that boys do
my impossible dream is to work hard like
a man for China for Asia and I want
nothing more in this world than to throw
my life into working for the nation end
quote so when she cut her hair and
declared this new life to the world
a new chapter began in Kawashima Yoko's
life and she made a very public and
messy scene at her break with her
adoptive father
Shaymin Naniwa she went her own separate
way and began to live her life
independent of the control Naniwa had
exercised over her since her childhood
and if there ever was a perfect spot to
put the bookmark in one of the many
bookmarks Colleen over in the dairy
State has sent to me thanks Colleen this
would be it and then next time we'll
pick up with Kawashima Yoshi Co now in
her 20s with that very unconventional
life up till now
always bucking Authority and norms of
society now with nobody to tell her what
to do and not to do anymore she's ready
for anything we'll look at all that next
time in part two once again I want to
emphasize this is a whole sidebar to
everything I discussed in the past ten
episodes in that warlords series when
that article and photo ran and the Asahi
Shimbun with Yoshi ko sporting that new
hairstyle the anti funk in war had just
broken out remember
fungus young and his calming jun forces
tried to put away junk all in and we'll
pay fool and the old martial prevailed
when Kawashima Yoshi COEs vessel arrived
in China the Warlord's were still ruling
all the roofs so I'm telling you you
won't want to miss that one of course
all my patreon supporters get to hear it
a few days earlier than the usual Sunday
release date if you two have been
wondering how you can support the CHP
now approaching its tenth year of
existence and June 2020 you have two
ways patreon.com slash trying to history
podcast get access to all kinds of bonus
material and early access to stuff or if
you just want to contribute you know
like some panhandler you're trying to
get rid of there's always the official
CHP PayPal donation center at PayPal dot
me slash China history podcast enter any
number you want hit enter done okay
that's it for now lszl montgomery
signing off from sunny Los Angeles you
know what I'm hoping for
please don't let me down come back next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast